yo what up this is basically just to
show that video to a guy named the vegan
mojo he's put up some great videos
lately and unlike myself his videos are
pretty light-hearted and entertaining
and they're about five minutes long
whereas if you come to my channel you
regularly get 20 minutes minimum of
fairly in-depth and exhaustive and
exhausting set of reflections on vegan
politics activism ethics etc so this
guy's potential reach a larger audience
than myself because what he's doing is a
short format light-hearted I mean he
could change but whatever at the moment
that's what he's been doing and in
recent videos more than once actually
he's addressed really the same topics
I've been talking about on this channel
so all new vegans and social media
enthusiasts would argue that social
media is the best the most optimal form
of vegan activism well just because you
prance around your bikini and you get
people to eat a certain way it doesn't
necessarily mean you're making overall
change for the world initially for that
person and maybe they're friends yes
you're changing their lifestyle but they
can always go back to their old ways and
statistics do show that people do not
necessarily stick to a vegan diet let
alone a vegan lifestyle now this may
benefit you because it allows you to
work at home on the internet to promote
a vegan lifestyle but the bottom line is
there's a lot more we can really do to
help promote a vegan world for instance
let's look at the situation that
recently happened at SeaWorld SeaWorld
set on Thursday that it would
immediately cease breathing killer wells
going to mounting criticism by animal
rights activists regulators and
lawmakers over the treatment of marine
mammals in captivity okay so a big
success for vegan activist right but
there is nowhere in that paragraph that
said thanks to youtube or thanks to some
diet or thanks to some person in the
bikini that we're going to stop
breathing killer wells we really want to
see change and we want to see a vegan
world we're gonna have to see laws being
changed so the implicit contrast here is
between political change explicitly
articulated as political change which
includes obviously laws legislation and
people who really if they were smart
would present themselves as advocates of
cultural change who would claim that the
cultural change is more important more
urgent more attainable or more effective
than political change now as I say they
would say that if they were smarter in
reality there is no intelligent chorus
of a vegan opinion calling for cultural
change there are just people calling for
lifestyle promotion people who call for
diet exercise luxury put portraying the
vegan lifestyle as seductive high status
gratifying and they think that if they
make this appealing enough that will be
the impetus for a cultural
transformation now i can i can dream up
a hypothetical opponent who would have
something intelligent to say under that
heading but it's not durianrider and
it's not any of during writers fans or
any of the writers followers how do you
think that this is actually going to
change people's behavior or change what
is actually going on changing the policy
making new laws it's not going to make
much difference we all know that it
doesn't make much difference at all the
chorus of opinion that is rallied behind
the Adelaide vegans people from Adelaide
Australia have presented a totally
incoherent argument why basically
self-indulgence is the new politics is
the new Clio the political struggle of
the 21st century is not on the picket
lines and it's not at Parliament and you
know it's not even in opening vegan
restaurants no it's just in you know the
permanent vacation just in this
lifestyle activism just in showing off
beauty and boobs and bums and bicycles
and bikinis and making that as appealing
as possible so it's not really even a
debate I could have but the truth is if
someone did intelligently articulate a
culture centered form of act
vism then really my response to that
would be to point out the extent to
which cultural change and legal change
actually are linked in reciprocal and
one of the most important things that
laws do is simply in communicating
information it's quite misleading to say
for example cultural change is more
important the legal change because even
when heroin is illegal people continue
to use heroin even when cocaine is
illegal people looking and user take
drugs for example so many drugs are
illegal yet they are still widely used
yes however when you buy a bottle of
soda pop at a normal grocery store you
know for a fact it will not contain
cocaine as an ingredient because it is
illegal it also will not contain
ephedrine it will not contain a number
of other banned substances that could
indeed be insert a pop it's a well-known
historical anecdote because of Coca Cola
that there was a time when soda pop was
made with small amounts of cocaine the
coca leaf instead of just having
caffeine when it would be an ingredient
so yes of course the legal change really
does matter and it doesn't just matter
in terms of how many people are using
cocaine it matters in terms of actually
sharing and spreading the information
that this is fundamentally bad for you
if people nevertheless make the decision
after the government is very clearly
communicated to them this is poison if
they choose to use that poison that's
totally different from living in a
society where people sincerely believe
that a given drug is not bad for their
health so the knock-on effects of this
are immense and many of them are
informal and outside of the law but do
indirectly result from the law if you're
using cocaine it's quite possible your
landlord will take you aside and talk to
you I've already used on this channel
actually the example of a schoolteacher
who smoke cigarettes it's not illegal
but it's very likely he's going to be
not to do this in front of the children
so in this way I mean legal changes such
as laws that do not make cigarettes
illegal but really clarify to the public
this is something they have to constrain
they have to struggle to quit this is
something unhealthy and no uncertain
terms this becomes a cycle of cultural
change and gradually we transform from a
society that at one time portrayed
cigarettes as a symbol of sophistication
of aristocratic status of masculinity
when women first started smoking in the
in the Western world it was considered a
bold declaration of gender equality for
women to smoke cigarettes as equals with
men you know this was to show you a
woman who was you know employed as
opposed to being a housewife that you
were an independent jetsetter smoking
had all these tremendous powerful
cultural and symbolic meanings and of
course they were also fitted featured in
the cinema and what have you and to make
the transition to a a culture that
regards cigarette smoking as a kind of
ugly relic of an ignorant past as
something to be discarded that is a
tremendous cultural transformation but
the cultural transformation step by step
is actually reciprocal with legal
changes and yes you have to fight damn
hard politically in Parliament
ultimately to pass those legal changes
because there's at least one industry
that's making millions of dollars out of
cigarettes in reality with animal
exploitation with veganism there are so
many industries there's such a large
percentage of the economy and those
industries are so deeply rooted in the
country you know in most countries
around the world you know tell you about
the dairy industry in New Zealand the
dairy industry is so closely connected
to the government that to raise even
even warnings about negative health
effects by four due to Dairy do two eggs
do to meet this is actually a tremendous
political struggle and a legal struggle
and yeah it does go far far beyond this
kind of put on a bikini lifestyle
activism the bottom
social media is just strictly used for
entertainment purposes and there's a
world outside of social media just
because you think you have a large
following or you think you're getting a
lot of views does not mean it's changing
the infrastructure of our communities if
anybody's been in the grocery store
lately we can clearly see that milk eggs
cheese meats and all that stuff is still
highly stocking the shelves and don't
take this the wrong way because I highly
support veganism on any platform but I
am NOT going to act like it's going to
revolutionize the world every single
human rights feat happen because we
change the law it's that plain and
simple I'm really gratified when I see
some of the ideas and even some of the
idioms I've been using on the channel
being picked up by other youtubers so
you know I noticed he uses the term you
know permanent vacation he's repeating
you know making use of some of the
analysis i sat down in my own earlier
videos and that's natural I mean
ultimately we're all sharing the same
couple thousand viewer you know which
also get I don't really regard as a
negative thing on this channel I have no
pretense to reach a mass audience and I
don't even really have a pretense to
reach new vegans although I do there are
people who send me fan mail thanks I got
some last couple of days I've gotten
continued to get fan mail from people
who became vegan because of my channel
or people who were in the process of
becoming vegan and came to my channel
and my channel was important to them in
the transition in some other way but in
a few cases um you know my channel
really was directly the cause for
somebody converting to veganism which is
interesting but of course that's not
really what I'm trying to do here
nothing on this channel is introductory
right it's all advanced and what I'm
motivated to do is not to try to take
people who are completely hostile to
veganism and try to make them less
hostile or convert them to veganism or
give them step 1 introduction to what is
veganism instead what I'm trying to do
is make better use of the vegans we've
already got because I think we've
actually got a constituency of really
talented people who are scattered all
over the world
some of you are in Germany some of you
are in Israel some of you are in
Australia some of you are in India some
of you are in America etc I think we do
actually have a lot of talent and it's
not on YouTube and it you know it's not
showing up at you know pedda conferences
and I don't blame you guys I think every
single one of you has good reasons to
not be on YouTube I think you have good
reasons not to waste your time with it
not to expose yourselves to the kind of
inane criticism and commentary and not
to expose yourself to danger in your own
workplace you know to put your own
professional reputation in peril I think
there are a lot of good reasons why any
person with a respectable job would not
do what I'm doing and in case you were
wondering what my respectable job is
I'll have you know I've signed a
contract to be a university professor in
China for one year in just one month i'm
flying the asia eventually to start work
as a professor at University in China
haha where my salary relates to works
out to be about 850 US dollars per month
so in terms of people whose whose salary
is lower than what you quite possibly
could make through patreon or through uh
you know monetizing your youtube channel
I might be in that select class of
people whose salary is so low that
YouTube want it might be tempting but
anyway yeah I will be earning next to
nothing and having a fairly intense
educational experience myself while
living and working as a teacher teaching
University classes in the people's
republic of china soon enough well
pointing this video was basically to
give a shout out to this dude vegan mojo
and haha what I would stake resting to
say is what I hope to do is galvanize
people who already are vegan I hope to
inspire people to become more active
more organized more politically
effective and more outcome oriented
because in general vegans are fracked
and fragmentary they don't have a lot in
common with one another there are a lot
of barriers to get over for them to
cooperate or work together and it's hard
for them to see common goals it's hard
for them to even format units of five
people who can cooperate and ultimately
a lot of vegans are indolent a lot of
them are despondent veganism itself i
mean my recent my recent long talk more
than an hour long with zaria you can see
I mean there's real misery there's a
real agony there's real darkness in the
vegan experience of the world you know
the sadness and sorrow are very real so
I think it's quite meaningful to reach
out to those people like including zari
herself including whoever you people are
watching this and you know yeah we talk
about our feelings man interview we do
we do actually reflect on you know the
sadness and the sorrow and also to talk
reflect on the potential for making
positive change okay so under that
rubric I'm here praising this guy vegan
mojo he's had a couple of different
videos recently or he really skewers the
wishful thinking that so many vegans are
indulging in when they think that
YouTube is the magic formula for social
change and when they basically
marginalize ignore or denigrate real
political activism real political change
real legal change and the point this
guy's making lately it's again he'll
he'll make other points and in his
channel he's talked about things the
past will talk more than future but
lately one of his points is to drum home
with different examples look the laws
really do matter vegans wearing bikinis
not so much you can look at any type of
human rights and the reason why those
changed for the good is because we
change the law you know look look at the
case studies of recent legal changes and
political changes that have made a
difference for the lives of particular
animals for the direction of our society
as a whole yeah you know what actually
lobbying the government for legal change
matters now I do have critics
at a much much lower level of
intelligence who actually directly
claimed the exact opposite I do have
critics who come out and say no laws do
not matter I think for most people this
is just wish fulfillment they just want
to believe that their vacation in
Thailand is not merely a vacation in
Thailand they want to believe their
vacation Thailand is saving the world
and it's not they want to believe that
their health and fitness blog is not
just a health and fitness blog at saving
the world and it's the supreme form of
political activism and that it actually
literally makes them holier-than-thou
and it doesn't and of course I mean
there are many things about that are
regrettable that set of attitudes but
among other things it means that we
can't just appreciate a vacation as a
vacation because everything is laid in
with these phony political / tensions
that really do a disservice to both
sides like it's both denigrating to real
politics and it's denigrating to real
athleticism or real travel blogging or
real anyway whatever you know if look if
you want to do restaurant reviews too
that's great all these things can be
great but let's not fall into the trap
that really people like durian writer
have set for us in 2016 the most
prominent voice in proclaiming that
politics doesn't matter that real
political activism doesn't matter it
does it matters much much more than
lifestyle vlogging and as I say
basically I take my hat off uh Gee I
could have actually I could have worn a
hat for this oh well missed opportunity
I take my hat off to the vegan mojo
because he's come out and said that
really directly been strongly and
stridently and he's done it in a five
minute format that I think with time
will reach a lot of people